docs: Rewrite guidelines for writing commit messages. (#24634)
zulip/zulip: docs/contributing/commit-discipline.md

There is no need to be creative here! If one of the examples above
fits your commit, use it. Consistency makes it easier for others to
scan commit messages to find what they need.

Additional tips:

- Use lowercase (e.g., "settings", not "Settings").
- If it's hard to find a 1-2 word description of the part of the code base
  affected by your commit, consider again whether you have structured your
  commits well.
- Never use a generic term like "bug", "fix", or "refactor".

### Commit summary, part 2

This is a **complete sentence** that briefly summarizes your changes. There are
a few rules to keep in mind:

- Start the sentence with an
  [imperative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperative_mood) verb, e.g.
  "fix", "add", "change", "rename", etc.
- Use proper capitalization and punctuation.
- Avoid abbreviations and acronyms.
- Be concise, and don't include unnecessary details. For example, "Change X and
  update tests/docs," would be better written as just, "Change X," since (as
  discussed above) _every_ commit is expected to update tests and documentation
  as needed.
- Make it readable to someone who is familiar with Zulip's code base, but hasn't

>   been involved with the project you're working on.

Reviewer: We use "project" to refer to Zulip as a whole a few times before this, so maybe here specify a bit more ...

> ... but hasn't been involved with the specific area of the code base you're working on.

or 

> ... but hasn't been involved with the specific area of the project you're working on.

Author: Using "effort", since maybe that's closer to what @timabbott had in mind?

- `blueslip: Add feature to time common operations.`
- `gather_subscriptions: Fix exception handling bad input.`
- `stream_settings: Fix save/discard widget on narrow screens.`

#### Detailed example

- **Good summary**: "gather_subscriptions: Fix exception handling bad input."
- **Not so good alternatives**:
  - "gather_subscriptions was broken": This doesn't explain how it was broken, and
    doesn't follow the format guidelines for commit summaries.
  - "Fix exception when given bad input": It's impossible to tell what part of the
    codebase was changed.
  - Not using the imperative:
    - "gather_subscriptions: Fixing exception when given bad input."
    - "gather_subscriptions: Fixed exception when given bad input."

### Commit description

The body of the commit message should explain why and how the change
was made. Like a good code comment, it should provide context and
motivation that will help both a reviewer now, and a developer looking
at your changes a year later, understand the motivation behind your
decisions.

Many decisions may be documented in multiple places (for example, both
in a commit message and a code comment). The general rules of thumb are:

> - If the information will be helpful long-term for someone trying to
>   read and understand the code base, include it in a code comment.
> - If the information will be helpful long-term for someone trying to
>   investigate why these changes are a complete and correct
>   implementation of the commit's idea, include it in the commit
>   message.

Reviewer 2: This part I feel could be a bit clearer on the distinction between these two concepts. Here's a version adapted from what I have [in the zulip-mobile style guide](https://github.com/zulip/zulip-mobile/blob/main/docs/style.md#commit-messages-code):
```suggestion
- Use the commit message for information that's relevant for someone
  trying to understand the change this commit is making, or the difference
  between the old version of the code and the new version. In particular,
  this includes information about why the new version of the code is better than,
  or not worse than, the old version.
- Use code comments, or the code itself, for information that's relevant
  for someone trying to read and understand the new version of the code
  in the future, without comparing it to the old version.
```

Author: That looks great to me.

Reviewer 3: Yeah that's great!

- If the information is helpful for reviewing your work (for example,
  an alternative approach that you rejected or are considering,
  something you noticed that seemed weird, or an error you aren't sure
  you resolved correctly), include it in the PR description /
  discussion.

As an example, if you have a question that you expect to be resolved
during the review process, put it in a PR comment attached to a
relevant part of the changes. When the question is resolved, remember
to update code comments and/or the commit description to document the
reasoning behind the decisions.

There are some cases when the best approach is improving the code or commit
structure, not writing up details in a comment or a commit message. For example:

- If the information is the description of a calculation or function,
  consider the abstractions you're using. Often, a better name for a
  variable or function is a better path to readable code than writing
  a prose explanation.
- If the information describes an additional change that you made while working

>   on the commit, consider whether it is separable from the rest of the project.

Reviewer: Again, I feel like the use of "project" is confusing here. It refers to the changes in the commit vs Zulip as a whole.

Author: replaced with "changes"

  If it is, it should probably be moved to its own commit, with its own commit
  message explaining it. It is far easier to review and integrate a series of
  several well-written commits than it is to review those same changes in a

>   single commit.

Reviewer: Felt like a lot of "it" in this bullet point, so revising the last sentence to be ...

> Reviewing and integrating a series of several well-written commits is far easier than reviewing those same changes in a single commit.

section provides detailed guidance on how to write an excellent commit message.

**Tip:** You can set up [Zulip's Git pre-commit hook][commit-hook] to
automatically catch common commit message mistakes.

[commit-hook]: ../git/zulip-tools.md#set-up-git-repo-script

### Commit summary, part 1

The first part of the commit summary should only be 1-2 **lower-case**
words, followed by a `:`, describing what the part of the product the
commit changes. These prefixes are essential for maintainers to
efficiently skim commits when doing release management or
investigating regressions.

Common examples include: settings, message feed, compose, left
sidebar, right sidebar, recent (for **Recent conversations**), search,
markdown, tooltips, popovers, drafts, integrations, email, docs, help,

> and api docs; issue trackers can be a good source of inspiration (but

Author: What does this mean? Are you referring to labels in GitHub?

Author: (this bit about issue trackers should be either written more clearly or dropped)

Reviewer: I think this was a reference to, if a PR fixes/addresses part of an issue in GitHub, then the issue title could be used as inspiration.

Author: dropping for now
